I read r/AMD several times a week, and I'm kinda shocked by the number of issues that people are having with the new Ryzen CPUs. The most widespread ones are related to high (idle) voltages and temperatures. Is this a norm for AMD for a new launch? Did anything like that happen during the launch of the previous Ryzen CPUs? Just in case, I'm not trolling or anything. I'm genuinely interested but at the moment I've put off my purchase because I don't want to be a beta tester. I want to build a system and forget. Everything is perfect with Ryzen 3000 CPUs. Peace out. This topic might be safely deleted.
By the time Ryzen 4000 launches. Same thing that happened with Ryzen 1000, it became good when the Ryzen 2000 launched.
If you are shocked — please take a breath and keep in mind that thousands and thousands of CPUs are sold, and that this is looking to be the biggest launch for AMD, in sales numbers, for quite some time, if not ever. So there is bound to be more activity in the community, and hence much more discussion, even about a single issue. The idle power problem (aggressive boosting behaviour) is such an issue, and hopefully it will be sorted out shortly. As far as I know,. AMD support is aware and acting, and there is already a viable workaround. Overall, I think AMD will have more satisfied customers than ever in its history. But if you are wary of running into technical issues, then it may be wise to wait a couple of weeks until the dust settles and pressing issues are fixed.
Well, I guess I am a beta tester, but so far the only issues I have are very minor, and I can wait weeks if not months for them all to be "perfect".
Markfw said: Well, I guess I am a beta tester, but so far the only issues I have are very minor Click to expand... Yeah. I am positive that AMD will have their most successful CPU series ever with Ryzen 3000. Zen 2 is a downright incredible engineering feat, delivering performance at amazing value. However, there's always improvement possible in product bring-up and the marketing department.
Vattila said: If you are shocked — please take a breath and keep in mind that thousands and thousands of CPUs are sold, and that this is looking to be the biggest launch for AMD, in sales numbers, for quite some time, if not ever. So there is bound to be more activity in the community, and hence much more discussion, even about a single issue. The idle power problem (aggressive boosting behaviour) is such an issue, and hopefully it will be sorted out shortly. As far as I know,. AMD support is aware and acting, and there is already a viable workaround. Overall, I think AMD will have more satisfied customers than ever in its history. But if you are wary of running into technical issues, then it may be wise to wait a couple of weeks until the dust settles and pressing issues are fixed. Click to expand... Intel Sandy Bridge was wildly successful and prompted a huge number of purchases, yet I don't remember any issues with this CPU family or any other Intel CPU family for that matter (though to be honest I haven't followed them closely). Everything just worked out of the box. One particular concern is that in order to make a Ryzen 3000 CPU work correctly you even have to install a particular Windows power saving plan which sounds really odd. What about other OSes which are not officially supported by AMD? E.g. many flavours of BSD or even older versions of Linux, e.g. RHEL or Ubuntu LTS.
ApTeM said: Intel Sandy Bridge was wildly successful and prompted a huge number of purchases, yet I don't remember any issues with this CPU family or any other Intel CPU family for that matter (though to be honest I haven't followed them closely). Everything just worked out of the box. One particular concern is that in order to make a Ryzen 3000 CPU work correctly you even have to install a particular Windows power saving plan which sounds really odd. What about other OSes which are not officially supported by AMD? E.g. many flavours of BSD or even older versions of Linux, e.g. RHEL or Ubuntu LTS. Click to expand... X99... Idle voltages and temps are fine if you run the CPU at stock settings and install the AMD chipset driver which installs the correct Ryzen power plans in Windows 10 by default. The reason for the chipset driver/power plans is to enable 1ms interval power state changes and get the full benefit of the power saving technology in the Zen 2 chip. That said, if you're like a certain poster on this forum and give your CPU a manual OC and are supplying 1.4V+ on full AVX2 loads (apparently without even realizing it...) of course you will have thermal issues as well as degrade/kill your chip.
IEC said: X99... Click to expand... I'm pretty sure it wasn't a consumer platform for the masses.
ApTeM said: I'm pretty sure it wasn't a consumer platform for the masses. Click to expand... Nowhere in your OP or in subsequent posts did you state that as a precondition.
ApTeM said: I'm pretty sure it wasn't a consumer platform for the masses. Click to expand... Well, check the thread "what controls turbp in Xeons" (or whatever the title) There are a LOT of people using x99
IEC said: Nowhere in your OP or in subsequent posts did you state that as a precondition. Click to expand... The only condition is that I don't want to buy a new platform with certain serious issues which have been overlooked by reviewers (I don't blame them since they had little time and also they are not home users, so probably they were not concerned). Also, I've been assembling PCs for over twenty years now and I don't remember having any similar issues whatsoever. I might have been lucky ;-) Anyways, the issue is when and if I can buy a new Ryzen system and not having to worry about anything.
ApTeM said: The only condition is that I don't want to buy a new platform with certain serious issues which have been overlooked by reviewers (I don't blame them since they had little time and also they are not home users, so probably they were not concerned). Also, I've been assembling PCs for over twenty years now and I don't remember having any similar issues whatsoever. I might have been lucky ;-) Anyways, the issue is when and if I can buy a new Ryzen system and not having to worry about anything. Click to expand... Wait three months and take another look. Being an early adopter means accepting some risk that there will be problems (the right ram, with the right board, with the right bios, etc.). Seems a bit like the x570 motherboards out there are really version 0.9 instead of 1.0. How much to you want a new system?
ApTeM said: Intel Sandy Bridge was wildly successful and prompted a huge number of purchases, yet I don't remember any issues with this CPU family or any other Intel CPU family for that matter (though to be honest I haven't followed them closely). Everything just worked out of the box. One particular concern is that in order to make a Ryzen 3000 CPU work correctly you even have to install a particular Windows power saving plan which sounds really odd. What about other OSes which are not officially supported by AMD? E.g. many flavours of BSD or even older versions of Linux, e.g. RHEL or Ubuntu LTS. Click to expand... Oh there was certainly a pretty big problem with the Sandy Bridge launch. The big SATA controller fiasco. It happens to everyone. I think AMD is doing pretty well with this launch and honestly the extended socket compatibility is kinda hurting them. It certainly has its pros and cons but Intel has a lot less launch problems because they simply don't care about supporting newer CPUs on older platforms -- not to say that having backwards compatibility with sockets is a bad thing but it certainly makes things a LOT more difficult. I mean honestly CPU's running a bit warm at idle is a minor issue, it doesn't actually affect anything, and doesn't even seem to be happening to everyone.
extide said: Oh there was certainly a pretty big problem with the Sandy Bridge launch. The big SATA controller fiasco. It happens to everyone. I think AMD is doing pretty well with this launch and honestly the extended socket compatibility is kinda hurting them. It certainly has its pros and cons but Intel has a lot less launch problems because they simply don't care about supporting newer CPUs on older platforms -- not to say that having backwards compatibility with sockets is a bad thing but it certainly makes things a LOT more difficult. I mean honestly CPU's running a bit warm at idle is a minor issue, it doesn't actually affect anything, and doesn't even seem to be happening to everyone. Click to expand... "A bit warm" sounds like an understatement. I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Most modern consumer Intel CPUs run slightly above the room temperature under the same cooling. Also motherboards based on the X570 chipset are not immune to any of the known issues, so the compatibility angle doesn't work in this case. The whole platform feels rushed and incomplete at the moment (two weeks after it was released). I'm perfectly aware of the SATA controller fiasco which cost Intel a billion dollars (my etailer swapped my motherboard for free) but it was an isolated issue and it had nothing to do with Intel CPUs. Ajay said: Wait three months and take another look. Being an early adopter means accepting some risk that there will be problems (the right ram, with the right board, with the right bios, etc.). Seems a bit like the x570 motherboards out there are really version 0.9 instead of 1.0. How much to you want a new system? Click to expand... Exactly what I've been thinking. Gonna wait for a few months before the issues have been ironed out.
Eh, Intel hasn't had anything new since 2015. So their BIOS should be well tuned by now. X58 was a dreadful release for example. Took them months to get that sorted.
ApTeM said: "A bit warm" sounds like an understatement. I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Most modern consumer Intel CPUs run slightly above the room temperature under the same cooling. Also motherboards based on the X570 chipset are not immune to any of the known issues, so the compatibility angle doesn't work in this case. The whole platform feels rushed and incomplete at the moment (two weeks after it was released). Click to expand... Yeah you're right that the warm idle issue happens on X570 as well -- but still it doesn't matter -- it does not actually affect anything. It will get fixed eventually I'm sure. ApTeM said: I'm perfectly aware of the SATA controller fiasco which cost Intel a billion dollars (my etailer swapped my motherboard for free) but it was an isolated issue and it had nothing to do with Intel CPUs. Click to expand... Yeah but it had to do with that launch so it's perfectly valid comparison AND in that case it was much worse because you could have ended up with dead SATA ports, actual hardware damage.
I had a 3600 die on me within a day (stock settings). Was able to get it swapped, and the replacement is a little warm with the stock cooler, but totally manageable with one of my old 212 evos. It freezes up if I apply XMP profile with 3200 Bdie, but if I manually set 3000Mhz it's fine. Personally it's been way jankier than my experience with multiple Zen+ builds.
ApTeM said: "A bit warm" sounds like an understatement. I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Most modern consumer Intel CPUs run slightly above the room temperature under the same cooling. Click to expand... I don't really get the issue. You'd certainly prefer chips to run as cool as possible all else being equal, but if the chips perform as well as advertised within power consumption specs, then what is the issue? Let's say Ryzen 3000 chips will always run warmer than Intel chips. So what? ApTeM said: Also, I've been assembling PCs for over twenty years now and I don't remember having any similar issues whatsoever. I might have been lucky ;-) Click to expand... You're comparing your own personal past experiences with an n=1 with bug reports from a large population of users which, due to reporting bias, is going to appear be enriched for these kind of bugs. The Ryzen 3000 series may very well have more issues than typical. Personally, I've been very happy with my MSI B450 board flashed to the latest BIOS to accomodate my 3600, but it certainly doesn't mean that it's a perfect launch. In fact, frequenting r/amd myself, it seems most of the voltage/temp issues are really muchado about nothing and moreso to do with enthusiasts trying to overmonitor every little detail. Could be smoother, but doesn't really seem like a big deal
ApTeM said: I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Click to expand... Mine idles at ~35C.
lopri said: Mine idles at ~35C. Click to expand... What's your cooler? What's the ambient temp? What's your thermal paste?
Mine just "puked" a moment ago. Monitor suddenly goes blank, in the middle of scrolling, USB wired keyboard and mouse lights go off, cannot even use hardware RESET button, have to force power-off. Power-on, all is fine and dandy again. I am using 3600 RAM, and had my FCLK set to 1800 to match, so there's that, and of course, the fixed 4000Mhz OC, using a middling voltage that stock uses too, so I don't really see the problem with that. Are we as end-users expecting too much? Spoiled by Intel platforms, where the "max turbo" is generally easily achievable as an all-core speed, with the right motherboard (Z390, or other overclocking-capable chipset), and sufficient cooling (which, with certain Intel CPUs, meant de-lidding as well). As opposed to AMD's Zen2 platform, where "max boost" is rarely, if ever, achievable in the Real World, and heaven help you if you want a true all-core OC, running AVX2 loads. Time to underclock, to prevent screen black-outs. Anyways, I'm back down to stock settings, except for setting XMP (DDR4-3600), not going to even adjust FCLK (defaults to 1600, so mis-matched with DRAM right now). I want to see if I get "black outs" with these settings. If I do, I might ring AMD for an RMA. Or try my luck with a 3700X next month instead. Edit: This is all under 240mm AIO WC, and I've had the A/C going (recently cleaned my A/C, so it's actually nice and chilly in here now). Edit: Running 12 threads of PrimeGrid PPS LLR, at "stock" CPU settings, HWMonitor is reporting my Vcore at 1.384-1.395. That's at stock. CPU speed is roughly 3.917Ghz. So not too far off from my fixed manual 4.000Ghz 1.365V manual OC. If anything, I wasn't giving it quite enough voltage, and that's why I got the blank-screen / "puke" symptoms twice thus far.
OP, you seem to have made up your mind. But there are a few things I have to debunk... ApTeM said: Everything just worked out of the box. Click to expand... Ryzen user since day 1. Literally. Bought my 1700 + Crosshair VI on launch day. Worked perfectly out of the box. Even with immature AGESA, it was 100% stable at stock. Only issue was, and still is, the early 1000-series is fussy about memory compatibility. But again, this is only related to OC. Ryzen has always been rock solid at stock settings. ApTeM said: "A bit warm" sounds like an understatement. I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Click to expand... My new 3600 idles at 35-38C. Using an el cheapo Arctic Freezer 34CO with old fashion Arctic Silver 5. So here's one...
Insert_Nickname said: My new 3600 idles at 35-38C. Click to expand... HOW???? What AGESA are you running and what board? My idle has not been below 56C at stock CPU settings. Although, with the fixed manual OC, and not crunching, I've been as low as 40-44C at idle. But not with stock CPU settings, which punches up the clock to 4.2Ghz and 1.45V+ at idle.
VirtualLarry said: HOW???? What AGESA are you running and what board? My idle has not been below 56C at stock CPU settings. Although, with the fixed manual OC, and not crunching, I've been as low as 40-44C at idle. But not with stock CPU settings, which punches up the clock to 4.2Ghz and 1.45V+ at idle. Click to expand... There's a new investigation on r/AMD: https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/ch1kkl Might be worth looking into.
VirtualLarry said: HOW???? What AGESA are you running and what board? Click to expand... Asus B450-E with BIOS 2501 (latest), AGESA ComboAM4 1.0.0.2 I'd love to attach a screenshot, but something seems to go wrong today. VirtualLarry said: My idle has not been below 56C at stock CPU settings. Although, with the fixed manual OC, and not crunching, I've been as low as 40-44C at idle. But not with stock CPU settings, which punches up the clock to 4.2Ghz and 1.45V+ at idle. Click to expand... I'm not going to try speculating on what's happening here. What are your temps if you load defaults/completely reset the BIOS? As in everything on Auto?
VirtualLarry said: Mine just "puked" a moment ago. Monitor suddenly goes blank, in the middle of scrolling, USB wired keyboard and mouse lights go off, cannot even use hardware RESET button, have to force power-off. Power-on, all is fine and dandy again. I am using 3600 RAM, and had my FCLK set to 1800 to match, so there's that, and of course, the fixed 4000Mhz OC, using a middling voltage that stock uses too, so I don't really see the problem with that. Are we as end-users expecting too much? Spoiled by Intel platforms, where the "max turbo" is generally easily achievable as an all-core speed, with the right motherboard (Z390, or other overclocking-capable chipset), and sufficient cooling (which, with certain Intel CPUs, meant de-lidding as well). As opposed to AMD's Zen2 platform, where "max boost" is rarely, if ever, achievable in the Real World, and heaven help you if you want a true all-core OC, running AVX2 loads. Time to underclock, to prevent screen black-outs. Anyways, I'm back down to stock settings, except for setting XMP (DDR4-3600), not going to even adjust FCLK (defaults to 1600, so mis-matched with DRAM right now). I want to see if I get "black outs" with these settings. If I do, I might ring AMD for an RMA. Or try my luck with a 3700X next month instead. Edit: This is all under 240mm AIO WC, and I've had the A/C going (recently cleaned my A/C, so it's actually nice and chilly in here now). Edit: Running 12 threads of PrimeGrid PPS LLR, at "stock" CPU settings, HWMonitor is reporting my Vcore at 1.384-1.395. That's at stock. CPU speed is roughly 3.917Ghz. So not too far off from my fixed manual 4.000Ghz 1.365V manual OC. If anything, I wasn't giving it quite enough voltage, and that's why I got the blank-screen / "puke" symptoms twice thus far. Click to expand... most people don't overclock so a CPU getting close to its limit at stock is actually a good thing. I still wouldn't call that 1.365 a middling all core voltage. when you are at stock it's checking the current,power and temp limits constantly and adjustingvoltage and clocks many times a second based on its boost table. with an all core overclock you are turning all that off and the letting the sustained current hit higher levels than it would otherwise.
I voted "Other." I was lucky to get a 3900X a couple days after launch, but I couldn't decide how to proceed from there based on lack of motherboard reviews, anecdotal reports of issues with many of the motherboards, and memory issues. The memory issues seem to be fairly under control, but the voltages, temps, and clocks still seem to be a work in progress. So, I ended up selling my unopened 3900X to a fellow AT member and I'm looking forward to his reports. I'll re-evaluate in the fall to decide if I want to make the leap back to another 3900x or 3950x, or maybe just a 3700X for my X370 Taichi. By then, I'm confident all the issues will be worked out.
maddogmcgee said: most people don't overclock so a CPU getting close to its limit at stock is actually a good thing. I still wouldn't call that 1.365 a middling all core voltage. when you are at stock it's checking the current,power and temp limits constantly and adjusting voltage and clocks many times a second based on its boost table. with an all core overclock you are turning all that off and the letting the sustained current hit higher levels than it would otherwise. Click to expand... Takes the fun out of it, but it's basically how it goes with these offerings at this point in time. Open Ryzen Master and you can somewhat see it in action. Happen so fast that we most likely only see a tiny percentage of what's going on. I guess I got the perfect capture to enforce your talking points!
ApTeM said: Intel Sandy Bridge was wildly successful and prompted a huge number of purchases, yet I don't remember any issues with this CPU family or any other Intel CPU family for that matter (though to be honest I haven't followed them closely). Everything just worked out of the box. Click to expand... There was that whole SATA issue with P67/H67 chipset. Edit: extide already highlighted this.
I'm running stock 3600 with the crappy stock fan and idle <50C, but I don't really push my system. 3200 cas 16 ram which is what my ram is rated for.
ApTeM said: "A bit warm" sounds like an understatement. I have yet to see a single person whose Ryzen 3000 CPU runs below 45C at idle with an air cooler. Click to expand... As I type this, my 3600X CPU temp is at 39C and my CPUTIN is at 38C (the high for the day, btw). I have Firefox with several active tabs, a terminal, and two monitoring programs active. I'm running a Wraith Spire w/120mm fan. The CPU peak for the day occurred earlier (52C) when I ran a short benchmark thread on each core concurrently. The CPU has jumped between 38 and 44C in the time I've typed this. At actual idle it stays consistently at 38C in a 26C ambient room -- inside my open-front desk cubby. I don't remember the temps when it was running stock, but I did measure the entire system idling at 34.5 watts. Granted, the stock behavior is aggressive to the point of nearly obsoleting OC'ing. Perhaps that is your complaint? I'm not a fan of the factory OC either. But here's the good news; it's trivial to turn that off.
Arkaign said: I had a 3600 die on me within a day (stock settings). Was able to get it swapped, and the replacement is a little warm with the stock cooler, but totally manageable with one of my old 212 evos. It freezes up if I apply XMP profile with 3200 Bdie, but if I manually set 3000Mhz it's fine. Personally it's been way jankier than my experience with multiple Zen+ builds. Click to expand... You said your PC with the Ryzen 3600 freezes up on you if you use the XMP 3200 profile but not when set to 3000? What are the non XMP profile speeds on that memory? If the memory is advertised as 3200 then it should run at 3200 without issues and if not then it's defective as you did not get what you paid for and the Ryzen 3600 officially supports up to DDR4-3200 so that CPU should not have issues with DDR4-3200.
Dave3000 said: You said your PC with the Ryzen 3600 freezes up on you if you use the XMP 3200 profile but not when set to 3000? What are the non XMP profile speeds on that memory? If the memory is advertised as 3200 then it should run at 3200 without issues and if not then it's defective as you did not get what you paid for and the Ryzen 3600 officially supports up to DDR4-3200 so that CPU should not have issues with DDR4-3200. Click to expand... Its also heavily dependent on what motherboard and what bios. I had a horrible time with my x470 until tech support emailed me a beta bios. Its not the memory usually at this time with early bios.
ApTeM said: There's a new investigation on r/AMD: https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/ch1kkl Might be worth looking into. Click to expand... Memory at 3600? Zen 2 IMC is rated for 3200. 3600 is an overclock. It's worth looking into but ultimately irrelevant. The vast majority of people running Zen 2 with 3200MT/s RAM on supported motherboards are having no issues. It's the overclockers and the people who claim they should always be able to hit max advertised boosts who are having issues. That's a whole other story. Granted, I will say that for those buying a 3900X, AMD should realize that when they themselves label the RAM MT/s sweet spot as 3600-3733, then you should probably support it better. My answer would be - the Wraith Prism is nice. But if you're going beyond rated IMC speed and tinkering, just do the sensible thing and apply proper cooling solutions to ensure that the increased IF power draw and system heat production doesn't hamper your performance.
Another "AMD really screwed up their release" thread. Yawn. We average about 1 a week now.
scannall said: Eh, Intel hasn't had anything new since 2015. So their BIOS should be well tuned by now. X58 was a dreadful release for example. Took them months to get that sorted. Click to expand... X58 was really terrible. Though the worst of them all was nForce 600/700 series. I do not remember how many times I had to reformat HDDs due to corruption.
birdie said: There's a new investigation on r/AMD: https://www.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/ch1kkl Might be worth looking into. Click to expand... I can confirm this. On my system it's the same way. Memory frequency equal to or higher than 1800 will keep the vcore high. birdie said: What's your cooler? What's the ambient temp? What's your thermal paste? Click to expand... Cooler: Scythe Mugen (1st gen) Paste: Generic stuff Ambient temp: Hard to say but AC is set at 72F.
lopri said: X58 was really terrible. Though the worst of them all was nForce 600/700 series. I do not remember how many times I had to reformat HDDs due to corruption. Click to expand... Some of the old VIA chipsets were absolutely dreadful as well. And Irongate 750 or whatever the initial Slot A thing was. Oh, and Intel 820(?), the Pentium 3 RDRAM one was terrible also lol. We're almost spoiled by modern 'problems' haha.
Arkaign said: Some of the old VIA chipsets were absolutely dreadful as well. Click to expand... What, you don't like the KT266 ide controller corrupting your filesystem?
Arkaign said: Some of the old VIA chipsets were absolutely dreadful as well. Click to expand... Sure they had issues, but out of all of the 3rd party chipsets back then the VIA ones were typically the best. The SiS and ALi chipsets were truly terrible!
extide said: Sure they had issues, but out of all of the 3rd party chipsets back then the VIA ones were typically the best. The SiS and ALi chipsets were truly terrible! Click to expand... SiS735 rocked. It would be awesome if someone offered that level of value for Ryzen 3000 users today. ECS K7S5A 4 life!!!
birdie said: The only condition is that I don't want to buy a new platform with certain serious issues which have been overlooked by reviewers (I don't blame them since they had little time and also they are not home users, so probably they were not concerned). Click to expand... Don't buy it then, very few will miss you as a beta tester
nicalandia said: Don't buy it then, very few will miss you as a beta tester Click to expand... As I said in my OP I still have my eight years old system running perfectly (everything is the same aside from a new SSD and a new GPU) and I just want to make sure that my next purchase will be as durable. Also, "being a beta tester" doesn't really inspire confidence. Meanwhile I've decided to postpone my purchase for a few months - currently I have no pressing issues with my old system to justify any sort of hurry ;-)
birdie said: As I said in my OP I still have my eight years old system running perfectly (everything is the same aside from a new SSD and a new GPU) and I just want to make sure that my next purchase will be as durable. Also, "being a beta tester" doesn't really inspire confidence. Meanwhile I've decided to postpone my purchase for a few months - currently I have no pressing issues with my old system to justify any sort of hurry ;-) Click to expand... Well, you know, your loss (of performance).
extide said: Sure they had issues, but out of all of the 3rd party chipsets back then the VIA ones were typically the best. The SiS and ALi chipsets were truly terrible! Click to expand... Haha, yeah the SiS were typically slowwwwww. Irongate was trash. The thing that stood out about Via was the original KT133 and KT266 boards (noted directly by our beloved Anand Lal Shimpi himself on this very site) had some legit problems, fixed by the KT133a, and then the KT266a. I don't think the KT333 had issues at least. It was one thing that definitely bugged me, went from an Epox KT266 to KT266a with an AXP 1700+ OC to 2500+, then later a 2500xp I ran at 3200+, and I remember having to buy a new board to get it to work feasibly well. Even then, the USB and HDD performance was way behind my 2.4B@3.2 on an 845 DDR board. CPU wise AMD had a fantastic product, but it wasn't until Athlon64 that I felt the mobos caught up and were golden, even starting with my early Opty socket 940 build it was just a world of improvement in QOL. Granted, I didn't spend much time with the first gen Nforce boards on Socket A, but in dealing with them with customer builds it seemed intriguing but flawed. Socket 939/940 became far preferred by me over the 915/945 Intel boards in general.
DrMrLordX said: SiS735 rocked. It would be awesome if someone offered that level of value for Ryzen 3000 users today. ECS K7S5A 4 life!!! Click to expand... Haha oh man the Fry's special! Did you ever run any of those custom bios builds out there? That thing was completely fascinating, at one point I knew all the minor revisions and tweaks and best 4-in-1s and mods. Lot of fun budget builds.
Arkaign said: Haha, yeah the SiS were typically slowwwwww. Irongate was trash. The thing that stood out about Via was the original KT133 and KT266 boards (noted directly by our beloved Anand Lal Shimpi himself on this very site) had some legit problems, fixed by the KT133a, and then the KT266a. I don't think the KT333 had issues at least. It was one thing that definitely bugged me, went from an Epox KT266 to KT266a with an AXP 1700+ OC to 2500+, then later a 2500xp I ran at 3200+, and I remember having to buy a new board to get it to work feasibly well. Even then, the USB and HDD performance was way behind my 2.4B@3.2 on an 845 DDR board. CPU wise AMD had a fantastic product, but it wasn't until Athlon64 that I felt the mobos caught up and were golden, even starting with my early Opty socket 940 build it was just a world of improvement in QOL. Granted, I didn't spend much time with the first gen Nforce boards on Socket A, but in dealing with them with customer builds it seemed intriguing but flawed. Socket 939/940 became far preferred by me over the 915/945 Intel boards in general. Click to expand... Nforce 2 was great, I had a couple of a7n8e-deluexe's with Barton cores.... Does anyone remeber that sub game that was a staple benchmark back then should go and play it againsee what it's like.
itsmydamnation said: Does anyone remeber that sub game that was a staple benchmark back then should go and play it againsee what it's like. Click to expand... https://www.softpedia.com/get/System/Benchmarks/AquaMark.shtml ?
Tom's HW reports: Only one core on our Ryzen 5 3600X processor will hit AMD's rated boost frequency. AMD confirmed some cores in Ryzen 3000-series processors are faster than others, which is denoted in Ryzen Master. That means that not all cores can hit the single-core turbo frequencies. Instead, there are a mix of fast and slow cores. We recorded up to a ~75 - 100MHz difference between the fastest and slowest cores, with only one core reaching the single-core boost frequency. AMD hasn't shared the definition of the frequency that is acceptable for slower cores (it is rational to expect this to be the base frequency). While we recorded relatively small frequency deltas in our sample, it impacts performance and denotes a shift in AMD's binning strategy compared to the per-core turbo performance of Zen/Zen+. Previous-gen Ryzen processors can reach boost frequencies on all cores. Intel also says its processors can reach the turbo frequency on all cores. Workloads running on Ryzen 3000's slower cores experience lower frequencies than the chip's rated boost speed, and thus lower performance. The combination of Windows 10's new Ryzen-aware scheduler and AMD's chipset drivers allow the operating system to schedule single-threaded tasks into the fastest cores (thread pinning). AMD has previously disclosed the Windows 10 scheduler and the CPCC2 feature, but not that the combined features assign threads to the fastest cores. This functionality requires the latest version of Windows 10. This is somewhat similar to Intel's Turbo Boost Max 3.0 on its HEDT processors, but Intel doesn't set this as a requirement to reach the normal Turbo Boost 2.0 clock speeds. Older versions of Windows cannot schedule threads into the fastest cores as efficiently, thus resulting in lower clock frequencies and performance for Ryzen 3000-series processors in some workloads, which may be at the root of many user complaints. Most test utilities do not measure performance fast enough to catch bursty frequency boost activity. They also do not measure certain types of power states that could indicate higher boost activity. We theorize the slower cores could be a contributing factor to low overclock ceilings with Ryzen 3000 processors. Ryzen 3000 series processors hit all-core overclocks 200-300MHz below the single-core boost frequency. Slower cores simply may not be able to achieve/sustain higher frequencies, thus serving as the weakest link in the chain.
Intel also has turbo boost max with preferred cores, they assign single core workloads to best performing core and boost it to beyond other core's max frequency. It's a way to get best performance out of silicon.
VirtualLarry said: https://www.softpedia.com/get/System/Benchmarks/AquaMark.shtml ? Click to expand... Found it aquanox https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/ati-delivers,556-4.html
Arkaign said: Did you ever run any of those custom bios builds out there? Click to expand... Nah I was a low-information user at that point. I did build my own, but flashing custom BIOSes was beyond me. My board did perform pretty well for me, though. That was my leet 1.4 GHz Tbird. birdie said: T The combination of Windows 10's new Ryzen-aware scheduler and AMD's chipset drivers allow the operating system to schedule single-threaded tasks into the fastest cores (thread pinning). Click to expand... I wonder if the OEM-provided chipset drivers provide that functionality? On the stock UEFI for my x570 Aorus Master + OEM-provided chipset drivers, it sure looks like CBR20 (at least) isn't pinning itself in ST mode to any particular core. It jumps around like crazy.
DrMrLordX said: I wonder if the OEM-provided chipset drivers provide that functionality? On the stock UEFI for my x570 Aorus Master + OEM-provided chipset drivers, it sure looks like CBR20 (at least) isn't pinning itself in ST mode to any particular core. It jumps around like crazy. Click to expand... Are you running the latest Windows 10 build? Last time I heard Windows 1809 doesn't include the new Ryzen 3000 optimized task scheduler.
birdie said: Are you running the latest Windows 10 build? Last time I heard Windows 1809 doesn't include the new Ryzen 3000 optimized task scheduler. Click to expand... I'm actually running build 18945.rs_prerelease. I'm beyond the latest!
Maybe all your cores are created equal and boost properly that's why none of them is the chosen one? ;-)
birdie said: Maybe all your cores are created equal and boost properly that's why none of them is the chosen one? ;-) Click to expand... Ryzen Master has a few labelled with stars, so . . . I'm guessing not. I might need to try the latest AMD chipset drivers instead of the Gigabyte ones.
DrMrLordX said: f the OEM-provided chipset drivers provide that functionality? On the stock UEFI for my x570 Aorus Master + OEM-provided chipset drivers, it sure looks like CBR20 (at least) isn't pinning itself in ST mode to any particular core. It jumps around like crazy. Click to expand... Which power plan are you running? Testing the below and using the Ryzen balanced power plan I get the bouncing around in single thread CB R20 also, but it does look to favor one core more than the others. I haven't tried the Ryzen performance plan yet to see if it pins to a core like it did when I was using the 3600 in my MSI x570 MB. The overall results look to be very similar anyways viewing the scores. According to HWiNFO64 every one of my cores has hit 4192.4 MHz at one point or another during the 22 minutes it's been monitoring. I'm in the very early stages of testing a 3600 on my CH6. I just got windows installed last night. The CH6/3600 combo likes to halt on the C5 error code when playing around with the memory speeds. Even lower speed settings trigger the code for some reason. Maybe it was a miracle, but I somehow managed to get my b-die running at 3600 CL14 @1.45v last night. I'm not sure if it'll be 100% stable yet. Aida64 shows latency at 68.1ns without even diving into the sub-timings. In the end it only took 2 mouse clicks and setting the dram voltage to 1.45v along with the vram dram boot voltage set to 1.45v's. Still testing this theory out, but it looks to be working. I wound up loading the wrong bios file on my usb stick when I did the usb flashback to get the MB 3xxx series ready. It's Agesa 1.0.0.2 based, but is functional. I'm gonna play around as is for a while before I flash to the latest version which is 1.0.0.3ab based it looks like. I'm kind of hoping Asus will release a new one as many say the current one is buggy. The CH6 has way too many settings in the uEFI for a person to monkey around with!
Kenmitch said: Which power plan are you running? Click to expand... I thought I was on Windows Performance, but after installing chipset drivers it defaulted me to Ryzen Balanced. I switched to Ryzen Performance. Now it's hitting basically one core . . . just not one of the cores that is fastest according to Ryzen Master. Seems to peak at ~4330 MHz or so. CBR20 ST. Enabling PBO seems to make it a little more consistent. I've tried setting core affinity, but it picks cores that don't seem to line up with the numbers in Task Manager. edit: looks like I significantly increased performance by setting Ryzen Master to poll every 4 seconds and activating the histogram (probably not related, but still). Now I'm getting core boosts in the 4.5 GHz range in CBR20. ST score: 508! And that's with DDR4-2133. And all without PBO. Core boosts seem to go up when I keep Ryzen Master minimized?
Pretty much all the complaints in OP are now addressed with the latest chipset driver version 1.07.29: https://community.amd.com/community...te-5-let-s-talk-clocks-voltages-and-destiny-2
Are these issues really a concern for a "set and forget" type of person in any case? These seem more like minutia that enthusiasts worry about. What issues are affecting peoples day to day usage in a perceptible way, not people poring over HWiNFO numbers? I don't think it can be stated enough that reporting bias is a factor here especially when using reddit as some sort of basis for you being "shocked by the number of issues". "Nothing to report, everything working fine" posts don't get the upvotes that more controversial posts might. Now I feel like an apologist so I'll say AMD should fix everything they can! This PDF from AMD is worth a read.
Blockheadfan said: Are these issues really a concern for a "set and forget" type of person in any case? These seem more like minutia that enthusiasts worry about. What issues are affecting peoples day to day usage in a perceptible way, not people poring over HWiNFO numbers? I don't think it can be stated enough that reporting bias is a factor here especially when using reddit as some sort of basis for you being "shocked by the number of issues". "Nothing to report, everything working fine" posts don't get the upvotes that more controversial posts might. Now I feel like an apologist so I'll say AMD should fix everything they can! This PDF from AMD is worth a read. Click to expand... I've read the entire PDF - it looks and sounds like an excuse for a broken piece of silicon which warrants a new fixed revision. "Light" loads must not peg the CPU at maximum voltages and frequencies no matter what. You see that they even went ahead and released a "fixed" version of Ryzen Master which will no longer report the true data about the CPU - this is simply unacceptable. In my over 25+ years of running various CPUs I've never seen a situation when light monitoring tools like CPU-Z or HWiNFO would cause any discernible CPU clocks/voltages ramp up. If I were AMD I'd admit I've -redacted- up and released a new revision of Ryzen 3000 CPUs which Intel does all the time. Still, I've been under the impression that both Intel and AMD nowadays have a big chunk of the CPU logic completely programmable via firmware, so I wonder why it's not the case right now at least for AMD. Profanity in the tech forums is not allowed, even if you * parts of it out. Daveybrat AT Moderator
birdie said: I've read the entire PDF - it looks and sounds like an excuse for a broken piece of silicon which warrants a new fixed revision. "Light" loads must not peg the CPU at maximum voltages and frequencies no matter what. You see that they even went ahead and released a "fixed" version of Ryzen Master which will no longer report the true data about the CPU - this is simply unacceptable. In my over 25+ years of running various CPUs I've never seen a situation when light monitoring tools like CPU-Z or HWiNFO would cause any discernible CPU clocks/voltages ramp up. If I were AMD I'd admit I've f***ed up and released a new revision of Ryzen 3000 CPUs which Intel does all the time. Still, I've been under the impression that both Intel and AMD nowadays have a big chunk of the CPU logic completely programmable via firmware, so I wonder why it's not the case right now at least for AMD. Click to expand... I don't agree with any of that and I don't think you're qualified to tell AMD to admit to anything or to revise anything. Also the entire of my post except that link.
birdie said: "Light" loads must not peg the CPU at maximum voltages and frequencies no matter what. Click to expand... What's light load? You even put it in quotes yourself. Whatever the load, it's a valid policy to execute the load as quickly as possible. The PDF even mentions and linked why that's commonly accepted as a valid strategy, race-to-idle. AMD increased the action granularity to 1ms and allowed this behavior to be used unrestricted. Now it turns out "idling" applications are essentially abusing this behavior and having loads for the CPU to process again and again, making a fool of the whole idle concept. AMD's reaction is to draw a line and reintroduce the previous 15ms window for short load bursts that stay within so the CPU actually gets a chance to idle. I'm familiar with the efforts through powertop (a tool by Intel) under Linux which tracks devices and processes waking the CPU from sleep, thus decreasing power efficiency. The result of having this tool over the years was that such wake calls were vastly reduced, and if still necessary, combined in batches. To me the idle behavior under Windows looks like it could use such an optimization as well.
moinmoin said: What's light load? You even put it in quotes yourself. Whatever the load, it's a valid policy to execute the load as quickly as possible. The PDF even mentions and linked why that's commonly accepted as a valid strategy, race-to-idle. AMD increased the action granularity to 1ms and allowed this behavior to be used unrestricted. Now it turns out "idling" applications are essentially abusing this behavior and having loads for the CPU to process again and again, making a fool of the whole idle concept. AMD's reaction is to draw a line and reintroduce the previous 15ms window for short load bursts that stay within so the CPU actually gets a chance to idle. I'm familiar with the efforts through powertop (a tool by Intel) under Linux which tracks devices and processes waking the CPU from sleep, thus decreasing power efficiency. The result of having this tool over the years was that such wake calls were vastly reduced, and if still necessary, combined in batches. To me the idle behavior under Windows looks like it could use such an optimization as well. Click to expand... I dont even think its broken, the problem is a error in sampling , both for temperature and for voltage. I've seen this a bunch of times on different forums, people get all huffy and then when you ask them to make sure they have nothing that does constant polling etc and see what temp/voltage looks like they flat out wont. It is very bizarre, Just like @birdie it was explained with an oscilloscope capture to boot but its apparently "broken silicon" , just explain to me how broken silicon can regulate its power requirements @ 1ms intervals and not be unstable/crash?
You can set polling interval to anything you like. If the monitoring software isn't active on the desktop, you don't get clockspeed/temp spikes. Just use a histogram to see what I mean. If I keep Ryzen Master in the foreground, I get spikes of activity every 4-8 seconds. If I minimize it, nothing.
itsmydamnation said: I dont even think its broken, the problem is a error in sampling , both for temperature and for voltage. Click to expand... It's a case of PEBCAK imo. The sampling is a highly specific snapshot value that can change, at a granularity of 1ms, 1000 times per second (duh!). AMD now changes this to a running average across time and the whole package to fix the issue of perception. Perception in general is an issue with Ryzen 3k, somebody did a huge rant on Reddit about that. Unlike him I do think the changes AMD did so far as a result of that are mostly alright though. Edit: Removed the embedding of said reddit post as it's really way too long, follow above link instead please.
moinmoin said: It's a case of PEBCAK imo. The sampling is a highly specific snapshot value that can change, at a granularity of 1ms, 1000 times per second (duh!). AMD now changes this to a running average across time and the whole package to fix the issue of perception. Perception in general is an issue with Ryzen 3k, somebody did a huge rant on Reddit about that. Unlike him I do think the changes AMD did so far as a result of that are mostly alright though. Click to expand... Well that's how it goes when AMD launches a new product. The internet tends to single out what it considers to be it's major weakness and runs with it. I don't know why, but it happens on every launch.
birdie said: "Light" loads must not peg the CPU at maximum voltages and frequencies Click to expand... It doesn't .. I mean there are scope traces in there and everything. It absolutely does not and never did peg high voltages and frequencies at idle. Did you even read the pdf? I do agree that the high idle temp thing was a bit of an issue that needed to be fixed -- especially when putting this arch into laptops, but it seems like their solution is good. They were being a bit too aggressive in coming from idle states. Once I finally get some RAM for my build I would like to do some scope traces myself too for additional data. Just need to find some good probe points..
extide said: It doesn't .. I mean there are scope traces in there and everything. It absolutely does not and never did peg high voltages and frequencies at idle. Did you even read the pdf? I do agree that the high idle temp thing was a bit of an issue that needed to be fixed -- especially when putting this arch into laptops, but it seems like their solution is good. They were being a bit too aggressive in coming from idle states. Once I finally get some RAM for my build I would like to do some scope traces myself too for additional data. Just need to find some good probe points.. Click to expand... I also hope to build a Ryzen 3000 based system but currently cannot afford it. The reason I didn't like that PDF is again because AMD decided they would no longer show true data from their CPUs. If they have lots of sensors I want to see multiple data points. If there are spikes I want to see them as a graph. I don't want them to dumb down their software to hide the data.
birdie said: I also hope to build a Ryzen 3000 based system but currently cannot afford it. The reason I didn't like that PDF is again because AMD decided they would no longer show true data from their CPUs. If they have lots of sensors I want to see multiple data points. If there are spikes I want to see them as a graph. I don't want them to dumb down their software to hide the data. Click to expand... Why would you want to build a Ryzen 3000 system? It seems you would be a nervous wreck, with all the issues you're investigating.
maddie said: Why would you want to build a Ryzen 3000 system? It seems you would be a nervous wreck, with all the issues you're investigating. Click to expand... I prefer my silicon to be cool, low voltage and quiet. My last CPU which is Intel Core i5 2500 is still in a perfect condition eight years after I purchased it. My Nexus 5 phone still works perfectly six years after I bought it. I would like my Ryzen 3000 system to serve me for at least the next five years. I do understand that most middle-class Europeans and Americans (who I guess prevail at these forums) can afford a new PC every month but it's not my case. And I'm not content with my future CPU running at 1.45V at stock which doesn't sound like a safe figure. And thanks for calling me a nervous wreck. Much appreciated. Being concerned about HW equipment longevity is a trait of a madman. Right, I get it.
birdie said: I prefer my silicon to be cool, low voltage and quiet. My last CPU which is Intel Core i5 2500 is still in a perfect condition eight years after I purchased it. My Nexus 5 phone still works perfectly six years after I bought it. I would like my Ryzen 3000 system to serve me for at least the next five years. I do understand that most middle-class Europeans and Americans (who I guess prevail at these forums) can afford a new PC every month but it's not my case. And I'm not content with my future CPU running at 1.45V at stock which doesn't sound like a safe figure. And thanks for calling me a nervous wreck. Much appreciated. Being concerned about HW equipment longevity is a trait of a madman. Right, I get it. Click to expand... Seriously then, wait around three months, follow progress on these forums, and then you will know if this is the right long term buy for you. If you can't wait buy a Ryzen 2700x/x470 board or go Intel again. It's just not worth it to fret about this as much as you are - it's not like you're buying a house.
birdie said: I prefer my silicon to be cool, low voltage and quiet. Click to expand... Simple enough. Set a modest pstate OC, leave cool & quiet enabled, fix your fan curve, and you're golden. Note my sig: my 3600X is probably the quietest machine (of 8 in use) in my house. Only a couple of dual-core Ivy/Sandy Bridge AIO's beat it at idle power consumption.
birdie said: The reason I didn't like that PDF is again because AMD decided they would no longer show true data from their CPUs. If they have lots of sensors I want to see multiple data points. If there are spikes I want to see them as a graph. I don't want them to dumb down their software to hide the data. Click to expand... While I can fully understand your OCD and tend to feel the same with wanting complete access to interesting data, this change is actually an improvement wrt "true data" if AMD's explanation that the new rolling averages are what their PB2 algorithm is actually acting upon is correct.
birdie said: I also hope to build a Ryzen 3000 based system but currently cannot afford it. The reason I didn't like that PDF is again because AMD decided they would no longer show true data from their CPUs. If they have lots of sensors I want to see multiple data points. If there are spikes I want to see them as a graph. I don't want them to dumb down their software to hide the data. Click to expand... From the Anandtech article on the topic, it didn't sound like AMD was "dumbing down" their software, merely giving a more accurate representation of the average core temp. If Intel uses an average of multiple sensors and AMD's older chips do the same (just guessing here, not really sure), it would make sense to standardize it a bit so that end-users don't panic when temps are higher than they're used to.
birdie said: I prefer my silicon to be cool, low voltage and quiet. Click to expand... Just get an Intel T-series CPU. Cool, quiet and low voltage. It's not like you'll loose a huge amount of performance compared to the regular ones. birdie said: And I'm not content with my future CPU running at 1.45V at stock which doesn't sound like a safe figure. Click to expand... Once upon a time, my K6-2 required a core voltage of 2.4V. Voltages by themselves are meaningless. If AMD says they're safe, they're safe. Did you know Intel guarantees 3 years of continuous operation at TJmax for a given CPU?
Insert_Nickname said: Did you know Intel guarantees 3 years of continuous operation at TJmax for a given CPU? Click to expand... Nope, nice to know. Could you find a reference though? And is there anything like that on the AMD side?
Ajay said: Seriously then, wait around three months, follow progress on these forums, and then you will know if this is the right long term buy for you. If you can't wait buy a Ryzen 2700x/x470 board or go Intel again. It's just not worth it to fret about this as much as you are - it's not like you're buying a house. Click to expand... I'll wait for a month or two. Guess that will be enough to see any wide-spread issues. Some people go crazy with their CPUs (crypto-mining, video encoding/rendering 24x7, etc.), so reports should start coming soon if there's anything wrong.
moinmoin said: While I can fully understand your OCD and tend to feel the same with wanting complete access to interesting data, this change is actually an improvement wrt "true data" if AMD's explanation that the new rolling averages are what their PB2 algorithm is actually acting upon is correct. Click to expand... It's the second time you're insulting me and I don't know why. I don't even bump the topic - I just reply to certain messages sometimes- I'm sorry if it's getting on your nerves.
birdie said: I prefer my silicon to be cool, low voltage and quiet. My last CPU which is Intel Core i5 2500 is still in a perfect condition eight years after I purchased it. My Nexus 5 phone still works perfectly six years after I bought it. I would like my Ryzen 3000 system to serve me for at least the next five years. I do understand that most middle-class Europeans and Americans (who I guess prevail at these forums) can afford a new PC every month but it's not my case. And I'm not content with my future CPU running at 1.45V at stock which doesn't sound like a safe figure. And thanks for calling me a nervous wreck. Much appreciated. Being concerned about HW equipment longevity is a trait of a madman. Right, I get it. Click to expand... Actually I never called you a nervous wreck. If you read my statement correctly, you'll see I suggest getting a Ryzen 300 system might make you one. All these questions and speculations now is a wasted effort as it should be apparent to anyone that things are still in play with parameter changes still occurring. In other words it's impossible to get the clarity and answers you seem to need at this point in time.
Voted for small issues I can live with. 3900x on Crosshair VIII Wifi and Gskill Royal 3600 CL 16 RAM, system is 100% rock solid after tweaking per CCX overclocks and running Ryzen RAM calculator. My only gripe is that I haven't been able to play Apex Legends since I changed from my 4790k to the 3900x, same 1080ti on the same driver but now the game gives me the old device hung engine error. I'll live with it because the frame rate increase has been at least 30% and in some cases as high as 50% and I'm locked at 144 FPS at 1440p in all of the games that matter to me. MT performance is actually insane, at 4.4 all core OC I'm beating Intel CPU's with 24 cores at half the power and half the price. Highly recommend the platform to all my customers, but recommend for them to stick to the 3700x if they don't need the MT perf due to weird boost clocks on 3900x.
birdie said: It's the second time you're insulting me and I don't know why. I don't even bump the topic - I just reply to certain messages sometimes- I'm sorry if it's getting on your nerves. Click to expand... Uh sorry, did you mistake me for somebody else? No insults intended whatsoever, and neither are you getting on my nerves at all.
birdie said: In my over 25+ years of running various CPUs I've never seen a situation when light monitoring tools like CPU-Z or HWiNFO would cause any discernible CPU clocks/voltages ramp up. Click to expand... So you were using Ryzen back in 1994?!! I agree with you, but it's not the end of the world for a CPU to behave differently than what we're used to. The only thing I would be disappointed with is that "Turbo" doesn't necessarily behave the way we're used to, but that's a "me" problem, I'd just have to get used to it. They shouldn't even put the boost clocks on the box IMO.
thilanliyan said: So you were using Ryzen back in 1994?!! I agree with you, but it's not the end of the world for a CPU to behave differently than what we're used to. The only thing I would be disappointed with is that "Turbo" doesn't necessarily behave the way we're used to, but that's a "me" problem, I'd just have to get used to it. They shouldn't even put the boost clocks on the box IMO. Click to expand... I meant x86 PCs in general. ;-) I guess we can all agree that the Ryzen 3000 series release was somewhat rushed and almost a full month after it the platform still doesn't feel stable and feature-complete which is kind of a bummer. And I also jumped the gun with selling my perfectly working system and now I have to run a Core 2 Duo PC with 4 gigs of RAM which is incredibly slow and can't even play 1080p youtube videos without dropping frames and lagging like hell. ;-)
birdie said: I meant x86 PCs in general. ;-) I guess we can all agree that the Ryzen 3000 series release was somewhat rushed and almost a full month after it the platform still doesn't feel stable and feature-complete which is kind of a bummer. And I also jumped the gun with selling my perfectly working system and now I have to run a Core 2 Duo PC with 4 gigs of RAM which is incredibly slow and can't even play 1080p youtube videos without dropping frames and lagging like hell. ;-) Click to expand... I certainly cannot agree. I have 2 boxes running 24/7 completely stable@100% load. All 12 cores/24 threads, and they are great. Memory support and bios is still not the greatest, but I can live with the small speed hit. Yes, its very stable.
Markfw said: I have 2 boxes running 24/7 completely stable@100% load. Click to expand... Ever since I got my 3600 on 240mm AIO WC, and dropped the manual OC (back to "stock" CPU settings, with XMP set for 3600 GSkill RGB RAM), it's been stable, temps peak at around 80C, sure, I'm a little tiny bit below the "magic" 4Ghz level, which used to bother me, but now I just let my CPU do it's thing, and do work for me. Working like a charm, now. Edit: I do have to wonder, how much of the changes to the Ryzen Balanced Power Plan, and the chipset drivers, and the Ryzen Master update, are more cosmetic to placate the concern trolls out there (OK, I used to be one of them), rather than actual, functional changes, but I guess we'll see. Still waiting for future AGESA updates to smooth out the last remaining bumps. But on the whole, Memory compatibility (even with more-or-less "beta" BIOSes for 3rd-Gen compatibility with older boards), and overall stability (When I didn't attempt a manual OC), has really been fairly solid, for a new AMD launch like this.
VirtualLarry said: Ever since I got my 3600 on 240mm AIO WC, and dropped the manual OC (back to "stock" CPU settings, with XMP set for 3600 GSkill RGB RAM), it's been stable, temps peak at around 80C, sure, I'm a little tiny bit below the "magic" 4Ghz level, which used to bother me, but now I just let my CPU do it's thing, and do work for me. Working like a charm, now. Edit: I do have to wonder, how much of the changes to the Ryzen Balanced Power Plan, and the chipset drivers, and the Ryzen Master update, are more cosmetic to placate the concern trolls out there (OK, I used to be one of them), rather than actual, functional changes, but I guess we'll see. Still waiting for future AGESA updates to smooth out the last remaining bumps. But on the whole, Memory compatibility (even with more-or-less "beta" BIOSes for 3rd-Gen compatibility with older boards), and overall stability (When I didn't attempt a manual OC), has really been fairly solid, for a new AMD launch like this. Click to expand... Yes, it seems like the 3000 series has effectively removed OC'ing, as the chip basically automatically OC's itself very well. It does not hurt my feelings, since it is so much faster than the 2000 series, even when they were OC'ed. I got my moneys worth.
birdie said: I meant x86 PCs in general. ;-) I guess we can all agree that the Ryzen 3000 series release was somewhat rushed and almost a full month after it the platform still doesn't feel stable and feature-complete which is kind of a bummer. And I also jumped the gun with selling my perfectly working system and now I have to run a Core 2 Duo PC with 4 gigs of RAM which is incredibly slow and can't even play 1080p youtube videos without dropping frames and lagging like hell. ;-) Click to expand... My 3700x runs fine. No problems. It's as stable as the most stable Intel based PC's I've had.
Had some teething issues with the upgrade (due to the day one bios of the board) and was initially uncomfortable with the voltages I saw as this is my first Ryzen CPU. A new bios version has been released and I have had time to read up a bit more about the boosting of the 3700x. I am now a very happy camper. It is equal to or much much better than my 6700k depending on what I am doing and the motherboard/CPU cost less. I actually sold my used 6700k for 2/3rds the price of the 3700x. They are also soo power efficient and heat efficient at lower clocks its insane. As much as my Chromecasts work completely fine, I have a niggling idea at the back of my head that I will build a new micro ATX media PC when the APU's hit 7nm. You could cool one CCX running around the 3.0-3.6 GHz mark very easily.
birdie said: I guess we can all agree that the Ryzen 3000 series release was somewhat rushed and almost a full month after it the platform still doesn't feel stable and feature-complete which is kind of a bummer. And I also jumped the gun with selling my perfectly working system and now I have to run a Core 2 Duo PC with 4 gigs of RAM which is incredibly slow and can't even play 1080p youtube videos without dropping frames and lagging like hell. ;-) Click to expand... No we cannot all agree on that. 1. Ryzen is extremely stable, just not optimized (yet). There's a difference. 2. Ryzen's current stability is certainly far better than running a Core 2 machine. Good grief you are really reaching here.
I am with you @rbk123 . There is a big difference between being an unstable and unusable machine and the quirks we are dealing with here. Some of it just the lack of tools to visualize the activity. The top end single core clocks is about the only thing that actually comes off as a real issue and even that is a bit overblown in my opinion. With all the complaints you would think this launch is a dumpster fire. But it's probably one of the more stable new platform launches in 5-10 years (it's been a loooooong while since the actual chipset for Intel has been updated). I get the desire for perfection. Problem is the closer we get to it the more pointless the complaints seem to get.
Just the OP title is trollish, this suggest that the R3000 is not ready at all, i wonder how such tengential thread titles make their way on forums like AT, or is AT a subsidiary of Reddit...?.
The premise that Zen 2 is so buggy you have to run a Core 2 machine is so absurd his parents should be slapped for raising someone so clueless.
100% Satisfied. Came from a 2600X to a 3900X under a AIO with 360mm rad. This Asrock X470 Taichi board is pretty damned impressive. Idling at 29C This is with no PBO or Auto OC. Only things I changed was bumping the RAM to 3600MHz and FCLK to 1800MHz.
birdie said: I read r/AMD several times a week, and I'm kinda shocked by the number of issues that people are having with the new Ryzen CPUs. The most widespread ones are related to high (idle) voltages and temperatures. Is this a norm for AMD for a new launch? Did anything like that happen during the launch of the previous Ryzen CPUs? Just in case, I'm not trolling or anything. I'm genuinely interested but at the moment I've put off my purchase because I don't want to be a beta tester. I want to build a system and forget. Everything is perfect with Ryzen 3000 CPUs. Peace out. This topic might be safely deleted. Click to expand... Delete my post, end on a straw-man. Peace out. Quality stuff OP.
Pretty happy I didn't buy into the hype. Time to hold out another year.
A/// said: Pretty happy I didn't buy into the hype. Time to hold out another year. Click to expand... What hype ? they are light years ahead of Intel at the moment, and there is nothing wrong with them...
I see some members (@Blockheadfan) of these forums go on a downvoting spree which looks vile and mean and might indicate someone's insecurity, lack of intelligence and bigotry but I'm not a judge. Meanwhile: Multiple pre X570 motherboards have troubles running Ryzen 3000 CPUs. MSI boards are affected the most (Do Not Buy for Ryzen 3000 Series!! Incompatible and Stripped of Bios Features, July 31, 2019). There are issues running RAM at designated speeds (e.g. 3200MHz even if a motherboard officially supports such memory). High temperatures at idle are still not fully resolved. There are no good inexpensive motherboards for Ryzen 3000 CPUs because they are only properly supported by the X570 chipset. Absolutely most X570 motherboards have active chipset cooling which can be loud and very annoying. And they are relatively expensive. No one even talks about this issue here on these forums but literally hundreds of people say that POST may take up to a minute. I've noticed a lot of people on Anandtech rate posts not based on their content but based on their attitude towards the poster or the content, so I expect multiple downvotes for this message as well. Some moderators have gone as far as to approach me via PM because I erased the title of this topic. Meanwhile no one cares that people are openly mocking and scoffing at me here. I guess it's just OK and totally fine. Some recent examples: Pure mockery: Blockheadfan said: Delete my post, end on a straw-man. Peace out. Quality stuff OP. Click to expand... Never said or implied that: rbk123 said: The premise that Zen 2 is so buggy you have to run a Core 2 machine is so absurd his parents should be slapped for raising someone so clueless. Click to expand... Personal attacks: Abwx said: Just the OP title is trollish, this suggest that the R3000 is not ready at all, i wonder how such tengential thread titles make their way on forums like AT, or is AT a subsidiary of Reddit...?. Click to expand... Negated by the fact that multiple B450 motherboards do not boot/work with Ryzen 3000 CPUs. Just check Reddit/MSI Gaming. rbk123 said: No we cannot all agree on that. 1. Ryzen is extremely stable, just not optimized (yet). There's a difference. 2. Ryzen's current stability is certainly far better than running a Core 2 machine. Good grief you are really reaching here. Click to expand... I guess my desire to buy a non-expensive system without serious issues is something out-worldly as indicated by these forums. I'm terribly sorry for not being well-off. Didn't know that was required for participation. And I'm running a Core 2 Duo based system right now because as I've already mentioned I already sold my perfectly stable Intel Core i5 2500 based rig with which I had zero issues even though I bought the motherboard and the CPU on launch. Not a single booting issue, not a single memory compatibility issue, not a single stability/temperature issue. It was rock solid. My system POSTed in under two seconds (time between powering on and loading an OS). I guess that's something too much to ask from AMD. I presume AMD is still considered an underdog that's why you must avoid saying anything bad (even if it's based on facts) about their products but pardon me, I don't care about underdogs, I care about products. Even six members of these forums regret their purchase which is 16% of the people who've voted which is far from zero. I hoped we would have a decent discussion here but some people just cannot contain themselves without directly or indirectly attacking me. And while moderators closely follow my actions, they choose to overlook whatever is thrown at me - and most of the posts I've quoted have nothing to do with the discussion, IOW they are simply off-topic. What a great community we have here. And I politely asked this topic to be deleted almost a week ago. After leaving the forums for four days I've received further eight downvotes without saying anything. Again, an amazing community. Dear AMD aficionados, I apologize for casting doubt on your wonderful company. I will not do that again. Please accept my apologies. More member callouts. Not allowed. More callouts of moderator action. Also not allowed. esquared Anandtech Forum Director
birdie said: There are no good inexpensive motherboards for Ryzen 3000 CPUs because they are only properly supported by the X570 chipset. Click to expand... The above is hogwash. Although I encountered some issues with manual overclocking, both my Asus and Gigabyte B450 boards ran my R5 3600 CPU just fine (*) at stock CPU setting. (*) Meaning, stable. Temps at idle, and issues not reaching the "perfect" PB2 clock notwithstanding, but those are mostly minor issues. Overall, stability has been great, and runs fine with my DDR4-3600 GSkill RGB RAM. Edit: I'm not saying, that there aren't some compatibility issues with certain boards or BIOS revisions, but you have to understand the industry here. AMD and their mobo vendors, were spending MOST (I assume) of their time polishing their shiny new X570 mobos for release. I wouldn't expect anything less. Then, the sort of "back-fill" engineering resources to build, and hopefully in some cases test before release, BIOSes for their older boards, to run the 3000-series Ryzen CPUs. Just give it a little time, this is still bleeding-edge, and if you want more-or-less "perfect" compatibility, then yeah, spring for an X570 board. It's not like Intel even gave you the option, of dropping a shiny new Sandy Bridge quad-core, into a Core2 motherboard... at least AMD should be applauded, and not derided, for "making the effort" for backwards-compatibility with older AM4 motherboards and older chipsets. Something that wouldn't have even been possible, really, on Intel, because they change sockets so often. (Coffee Lake could have been different in that regards, but Intel willingly chose not to allow backwards-compatibility there. So the end-user HAD to buy a new motherboard. And you're complaining about AMD? Really?)
This topic was not created to complain or say anything bad about AMD or Ryzen 3000 CPUs. I wanted to collect opinions/data/etc. and run a poll. That's it. It was never my intent to start a flame war or anything like that.
birdie said: I see some members (@Blockheadfan) of these forums go on a downvoting spree which looks vile and mean and might indicate someone's insecurity, lack of intelligence and bigotry but I'm not a judge. Meanwhile: Multiple pre X570 motherboards have troubles running Ryzen 3000 CPUs. MSI boards are affected the most (Do Not Buy for Ryzen 3000 Series!! Incompatible and Stripped of Bios Features, July 31, 2019). There are issues running RAM at designated speeds (e.g. 3200MHz even if a motherboard officially supports such memory). High temperatures at idle are still not fully resolved. There are no good inexpensive motherboards for Ryzen 3000 CPUs because they are only properly supported by the X570 chipset. Absolutely most X570 motherboards have active chipset cooling which can be loud and very annoying. And they are relatively expensive. No one even talks about this issue here on these forums but literally hundreds of people say that POST may take up to a minute. I've noticed a lot of people on Anandtech rate posts not based on their content but based on their attitude towards the poster or the content, so I expect multiple downvotes for this message as well. Some moderators have gone as far as to approach me via PM because I erased the title of this topic. Meanwhile no one cares that people are openly mocking and scoffing at me here. I guess it's just OK and totally fine. Some recent examples: Pure mockery: Never said or implied that: Personal attacks: Negated by the fact that multiple B450 motherboards do not boot/work with Ryzen 3000 CPUs. Just check Reddit/MSI Gaming. I guess my desire to buy a non-expensive system without serious issues is something out-worldly as indicated by these forums. I'm terribly sorry for not being well-off. Didn't know that was required for participation. And I'm running a Core 2 Duo based system right now because as I've already mentioned I already sold my perfectly stable Intel Core i5 2500 based rig with which I had zero issues even though I bought the motherboard and the CPU on launch. Not a single booting issue, not a single memory compatibility issue, not a single stability/temperature issue. It was rock solid. My system POSTed in under two seconds (time between powering on and loading an OS). I guess that's something too much to ask from AMD. I presume AMD is still considered an underdog that's why you must avoid saying anything bad (even if it's based on facts) about their products but pardon me, I don't care about underdogs, I care about products. Even six members of these forums regret their purchase which is 16% of the people who've voted which is far from zero. I hoped we would have a decent discussion here but some people just cannot contain themselves without directly or indirectly attacking me. And while moderators closely follow my actions, they choose to overlook whatever is thrown at me - and most of the posts I've quoted have nothing to do with the discussion, IOW they are simply off-topic. What a great community we have here. And I politely asked this topic to be deleted almost a week ago. After leaving the forums for four days I've received further eight downvotes without saying anything. Again, an amazing community. Dear AMD aficionados, I apologize for casting doubt on your wonderful company. I will not do that again. Please accept my apologies. Click to expand... Every one of your points is just WRONG. I will not go into details, as responding to your garbage post does not make me want to spend the time to prove my point. I own 2 different systems on pre-570 motherboard that work just fine, and without even the latest agesa, they all run the memory at rated speeds,
birdie said: This topic was not created to complain or say anything bad about AMD or Ryzen 3000 CPUs. I wanted to collect opinions/data/etc. and run a poll. That's it. It was never my intent to start a flame war or anything like that. Click to expand... Posting garbage and lies will always get you downvotes, and is flaming.
Markfw said: Every one of your points is just WRONG. I will not go into details, as responding to your garbage post does not make me want to spend the time to prove my point. I own 2 different systems on pre-570 motherboard that work just fine, and without even the latest agesa, they all run the memory at rated speeds, Click to expand... Please delete this topic. As a super moderator I guess you should avoid using the words like "garbage post" but what do I know? I guess I should have proven each of the points with multiple URLs and I can do that but since "I'm talking garbage" I just won't bother any longer. I did not lie nor intended to do so. That's gotten beyond ugly. Actually I require you to go ahead and prove that everything I wrote was a lie and each of the issues I posted are non-existent. Not a single affected person. The fact that you own two working systems prove nothing. Let's have some decency here. Trolling, incendiary language and moderator callouts are not allowed. I have already told you multiple times that we do not delete topics. No one is required to "prove your negatives are correct" That's a ridiculous notion. Seriously, read the rules before you post again. https://forums.anandtech.com/threads/anandtech-forum-guidelines.60552/ Also, each sub-forum may have its own set of addtion rules in a stickied thread. esquared Anandtech Forum Director
birdie said: Actually I require you to go ahead and prove that everything I wrote was a lie and each of the issues I posted are non-existent. Not a single affected person. The fact that you own two working systems prove nothing. Click to expand... I think that statistical outliers exist in nearly every sampled population. The fact that you want to hold up those examples, as if they are somehow normative, is why you are getting the flaming and down-votes.
birdie said: Please delete this topic. As a super moderator I guess you should avoid using the words like "garbage post" but what do I know? I guess I should have proven each of the points with multiple URLs and I can do that but since "I'm talking garbage" I just won't bother any longer. I did not lie nor intended to do so. That's gotten beyond ugly. Actually I require you to go ahead and prove that everything I wrote was a lie and each of the issues I posted are non-existent. Not a single affected person. The fact that you own two working systems prove nothing. Let's have some decency here. Click to expand... The fact that I OWN and RUN 2 pre-570 motherboard with memory at rated speed, using bios from MFG website proves almost all your points invalid. And they are not expensive, others have shown the same things. I am going to report your post as trolling. Since I have posted as a member in this thread, I can't take action, but I can say that you have called me out, and thats not allowed.
Markfw said: What hype ? they are light years ahead of Intel at the moment, and there is nothing wrong with them... Click to expand... That they could do nothing wrong and that the chips would outperform what was advertised. The processors are good, but the amount of problems you read about at the price point and it being hard to get a 3900X make me want to wait six months before buying. I'll wait until December or January before investing money in Ryzen 3000. Intel isn't even a consideration until their next new architecture in 2022 is it?
A/// said: That they could do nothing wrong and that the chips would outperform what was advertised. The processors are good, but the amount of problems you read about at the price point and it being hard to get a 3900X make me want to wait six months before buying. I'll wait until December or January before investing money in Ryzen 3000. Intel isn't even a consideration until their next new architecture in 2022 is it? Click to expand... Well, they sort of do outperform what was advertized, and the problems are all very minor. But it is odd, that you have not been able to get a 3900x for the last several weeks (I got 2, but in the first few days)
birdie said: And I'm running a Core 2 Duo based system right now because as I've already mentioned I already sold my perfectly stable Intel Core i5 2500 based rig with which I had zero issues even though I bought the motherboard and the CPU on launch. Not a single booting issue, not a single memory compatibility issue, not a single stability/temperature issue. It was rock solid. My system POSTed in under two seconds (time between powering on and loading an OS). I guess that's something too much to ask from AMD.. Click to expand... Why does your single data point of your 2500 working rock solid for you make you right, yet Mark's 2 data points of his AMD systems being rock solid (not a single booting issue, not a single memory compatibility issue, not a single stability/temperature issue) for him make him wrong? And why would you sell a perfectly functioning, rock solid badass rig, before you were sure on what to replace it with?
Markfw said: Well, they sort of do outperform what was advertized, and the problems are all very minor. But it is odd, that you have not been able to get a 3900x for the last several weeks (I got 2, but in the first few days) Click to expand... I keep an eye on NowInStock, and they do sell out within minutes when in stock. Not so bad for such a defective, not ready product, right? Edit: Just in case anyone else takes my 2nd sentence at face-value and down-votes me, it was purely sarcastic. Hence, the "".
Markfw said: Well, they sort of do outperform what was advertized, and the problems are all very minor. But it is odd, that you have not been able to get a 3900x for the last several weeks (I got 2, but in the first few days) Click to expand... 5¢ says he never had one.
Tsavo said: 5¢ says he never had one. Click to expand... So far everyone that I have seen badmouth them, has never owned one. One reason that I was elected CPU moderator over 10 or 15 years ago (I forget) was that I BOUGHT virtually every CPU that came out and evaluated it based on personal experience.
Markfw said: Well, they sort of do outperform what was advertized, and the problems are all very minor. But it is odd, that you have not been able to get a 3900x for the last several weeks (I got 2, but in the first few days) Click to expand... I'm in the US. I've tried some places called Frys and Microcenter but they sell out fast as soon as they get it in stock. It's a phenomenal processor for MT workloads. At this rate and unless the take rate is high, I might be better off waiting for the 3950. I think for the price the 3900 is excellent for the moment being. I game a lot more now than I used to and I've sat through videos of people comparing 9900k to 3900 side by side using a 2070 or 2080 and the FPS difference isn't as much as some of the Intel diehards claim it is and I'm going to say these differences will get smaller over time. I think there will be a very level field in the years to come as Intel transitions to chiplet design. If you follow someone like Francois Piednol on twitter you'd think amd was going down in flames. I have no idea why mercedes benz picked him up given his history of disingenuous tweets.
A/// said: and it being hard to get a 3900X make me want to wait six months before buying. Click to expand... As if... Intel hasn't had their own shortage issues for the last year or so???
VirtualLarry said: As if... Intel hasn't had their own shortage issues for the last year or so??? Click to expand... 9900Ks have always been available in store for me. The price kept from buying. Microcenter has been holding bundles with the 9900k portion going for just under $460 forever. The only time it was hard to get your hands on one was around the holidays.
3900X #1: had been crunching 24/7 happily on a B450 mobo at 4.1ghz/1.225v vcore on varies different projects. AVX/AVX2 included. Since launched. Win10 3900X #2: been crunching 24/7 at the same speed above but at 1.25v vcore on a X570 mobo. Obtained a week after launch. Linux Mint 19 3900X #3: been crunching 24/7... same speed ... 4.1ghz at 1.275v vcore. But on a B350 mobo. This one had to add a fan on top of the VRM. Linux Mint 19 #1 and #2 using Noctua NH-D15S cpu cooler #3 is using Noctua NH-U12A cpu cooler. All 3 systems are out performing my TR 1950X and dual E5-2683V3 systems in terms of DC (crunching). And yes, I double checked to see if any performance loss due to lower vcore before put them to crunching. Very happy with them so far. I'm planning to replace all of my Xeons and upgrading my Ryzens 1xxx.
VietOZ said: 3900X #1: had been crunching 24/7 happily on a B450 mobo at 4.1ghz/1.225v vcore on varies different projects. AVX/AVX2 included. Since launched. Win10 3900X #2: been crunching 24/7 at the same speed above but at 1.25v vcore on a X570 mobo. Obtained a week after launch. Linux Mint 19 3900X #3: been crunching 24/7... same speed ... 4.1ghz at 1.275v vcore. But on a B350 mobo. This one had to add a fan on top of the VRM. Linux Mint 19 #1 and #2 using Noctua NH-D15S cpu cooler #3 is using Noctua NH-U12A cpu cooler. All 3 systems are out performing my TR 1950X and dual E5-2683V3 systems in terms of DC (crunching). And yes, I double checked to see if any performance loss due to lower vcore before put them to crunching. Very happy with them so far. I'm planning to replace all of my Xeons and upgrading my Ryzens 1xxx. Click to expand... I only have 2 3900x's but my experience is the same. And I sold all my 2683v3 OEM, but the ES chips will not sell for some reason.
birdie said: I read r/AMD several times a week, and I'm kinda shocked by the number of issues that people are having with the new Ryzen CPUs. The most widespread ones are related to high (idle) voltages and temperatures. Is this a norm for AMD for a new launch? Did anything like that happen during the launch of the previous Ryzen CPUs? Just in case, I'm not trolling or anything. I'm genuinely interested but at the moment I've put off my purchase because I don't want to be a beta tester. I want to build a system and forget. Everything is perfect with Ryzen 3000 CPUs. Peace out. This topic might be safely deleted. Click to expand... I'm a little late to this party but here it goes anyway I have an issue with high idle voltages and boosting less than I expected. That said, none of these are "shocking" I wouldn't even know if not for monitoring software. I do believe you are trolling, first, you use the word "shocking" when describing the number of issues, yet the one you're most concerned with (and the only one you mention) does not affect the usability of the CPU one bit. Then you go on to ask if it's the "norm" well we've already established that there is an issue on some boards/bios' with high idle voltage, and you are well aware that this is a brand new launch so to pretend that this could be normal when you know it isn't is trolling, and quite a transparent one at that, to claim you aren't is being disingenuous on top of that. Are there issues? sure, are they shocking? Hardly. Heck, every Battlefield launch ever has had far more "shocking" issues than this Ryzen launch and those are't shocking either.
birdie said: Multiple pre X570 motherboards have troubles running Ryzen 3000 CPUs. MSI boards are affected the most (Do Not Buy for Ryzen 3000 Series!! Incompatible and Stripped of Bios Features, July 31, 2019). Click to expand... UEFI problems will take time to settle out. Did anyone not expect that? "Stripped of BIOS features" means the OEM decided to put small BIOS chips on the boards. Now they have to make compromises to make new UEFI revisions fit. Informed buyers can look at the BIOS chip size on boards and make decisions accordingly. Anyone who bought these chips day 1 expecting them to work perfectly in older motherboards was basically crazy (or taking a huge risk). Mobo OEMs had 0 financial incentive to keep supporting those boards . . . but they're stuck doing it anyway to satisfy their old customers and keep up with AMD's plans for socket compatibility. So the OEMs are dragging their feet. There are issues running RAM at designated speeds (e.g. 3200MHz even if a motherboard officially supports such memory). Click to expand... "Issues"? Meaning people don't want to take the time out to run something like Ryzen Memory Calculator and change a few subtimings after the settings are handed to them on a platter? Do you have any idea how long it took me to tune my first DDR3 system back in 2009? Like 5 days, maybe longer. My 1800x was significantly worse since ASRock took months to get a proper UEFI rev out there for memOC (and then screwed it up later, grr). I got a satisfactory mem OC out of my DDR4-4400 in one afternoon on this 3900x. I might go for more later, but from what I can tell, I won't get a lot of advantage doing so. Just makes me think I bought the wrong sticks for this system. High temperatures at idle are still not fully resolved. Click to expand... There are no high temps at idle. When you run polling software at tight intervals, it hits high voltage for less than 1ms on one core and causes a hotspot bump - especially if your cooling isn't absolutely top-notch. All you have to do is minimize the monitoring software and watch a histogram. It isn't "actually" running that hot. The CPU will not damage itself with these so-called 1.5v idle voltages and 50C idle temps. Absolutely most X570 motherboards have active chipset cooling which can be loud and very annoying. And they are relatively expensive. Click to expand... My x570 Master makes less noise than my case fans and radiator fans. You really have to crank that chipset fan up there to get it to whine. Also, expensive relative to what exactly? Z390 boards? https://pcpartpicker.com/products/motherboard/#c=135&sort=-price&page=1 Those have been out a lot longer. The cheap Z390 boards often can't even handle a stock 9900k without throttling. Give AMD time, they'll launch B550 eventually. The budget crowd will get some new hardware to play with in due time. Plus B550 boards will probably handle a 3900x with 95-100% of the clockspeed of an x570. No one even talks about this issue here on these forums but literally hundreds of people say that POST may take up to a minute. Click to expand... My very first POST, and any POST after a UEFI update, takes a long time. Startup from no power (cold boot) is blazingly fast. Rebooting is curiously slow, but does not take one minute. Maybe 15-20 seconds to warm reset. Meanwhile no one cares that people are openly mocking and scoffing at me here. I guess it's just OK and totally fine. Click to expand... Stop posting lies and you'll do better. I guess my desire to buy a non-expensive system without serious issues is something out-worldly as indicated by these forums. Click to expand... Pretty much any ASRock x370 board + R5-3600 will work well and be relatively cheap. Try to scrape up a Spire Prism since the included HSF stinks. I'm pretty sure there are going to be a lot of 3900x users giving those away . . . or selling them on eBay. I'm terribly sorry for not being well-off. Didn't know that was required for participation. Click to expand... It's that kind of attitude that gets you flak. I guess that's something too much to ask from AMD. Click to expand... At least AMD gives us new products. Intel has us stuck on the same crap from 2016. To heck with those guys. Truth be told, if I didn't spend any time OCing my system and tuning my RAM, my setup was painless as well (once I had the system built). Getting DDR4-3200 was a snap, and letting the chip run @ stock was effortless. I just wanted more. Plenty of people have had that experience. It's the people who are prying under the lid, trying to poke at things, that are having problems. I presume AMD is still considered an underdog Click to expand... Look at the revenues for Intel and AMD. Then get back to us. I hoped we would have a decent discussion here Click to expand... Then stop being a jackass. VietOZ said: All 3 systems are out performing my TR 1950X and dual E5-2683V3 systems in terms of DC (crunching). And yes, I double checked to see if any performance loss due to lower vcore before put them to crunching. Click to expand... Can't comment on the Xeons, but I noticed my stock 3900x beating a 1950X in CBR20. Which surprised me. 1st-gen Threadripper getting pwned by a $499 chip on a sub-$500 motherboard? And I did that running DDR4-2133. Very happy with them so far. I'm planning to replace all of my Xeons and upgrading my Ryzens 1xxx. Click to expand... As frustrated as some are with the overclocking, the truth is . . . stock performance of a 3900x destroys AMD's entire 2017 and 2018 desktop lineup and part of their HEDT lineup too.
@DrMrLordX : The 1st Gen TR 1950X already beat the dual V3's and only slightly behind the dual V4's (56 threads) The 3900X tops them all, and on par with the 2nd Gen TR 2950X if not beating it as well. 24 threads versus 32 threads At least that's what I saw on DHEP and a couple of other projects. I'll run them on more projects side by side after the Sprint to have a better look. For a 24 threads CPU, it's a BEAST. That's for sure.
A/// said: If you follow someone like Francois Piednol on twitter you'd think amd was going down in flames. I have no idea why mercedes benz picked him up given his history of disingenuous tweets. Click to expand... Francois is a God amongst insects. https://twitter.com/i/web/status/1137754038076710912
CHADBOGA said: Francois is a God amongst insects. https://twitter.com/i/web/status/1137754038076710912 Click to expand... I've never seen someone who no longer works for a company, fanboy for that same company so hard for so long. BTW, further down that thread: The 50% of power used for fabric was already confirmed by AMD to not be true. So he continues to spread FUD. Also, even if it were true, who cares when your chip is still beating the best intel chips in Perf/W anyway, lol. He does make a good point that basically the infrastructure for ARM servers is quite lacking compared to intel (and AMD though he won't admit that, lol), but it's not really a profound secret that he's sharing. It's a pretty well known fact in the industry.
Piednol is an idiot. He's also wrong to throw shade at ARM since he appears to be blind to what Huawei is doing with their custom cores. They already having working 64c chips.
Yeah that guy is a nutcase. I mean you need to look at Rome as a complete product. We don't know the exact power usage of the Infinity Fabric except that it is less than 50% of the total, AMD has confirmed that. If you look at Rome vs Cascade Lake .. it's pretty sad for Intel I mean people think Intel is getting whipped on the desktop, sorta but not entirely, I mean Intel still has higher overall single thread perf (less IPC but the clocks make up for it) however in the server market Intel is about to really feel some serious pain. Rome is a better product in every category and every aspect. In the server world Intel can't lean on super high clock speeds so AMD's higher IPC wins. Also the fact that AMD has more than 2x the cores per socket (except for Cascade Lake AP which should be considered a different category anyways because of the power use and price, but AMD still beats it anyways), better perf/watt, AND better pricing means there is pretty much zero reason to go with an Intel solution once Rome comes out. AMD has historically had some issues with people not trusting them in terms of reliability and compatibility but since Epyc has been on the market now for 2+ years and been very successful, I think that goes a long way to mitigating that fear.
I'd say it's ready. I bought my 3700X a couple weeks after launch, and some things were a bit rough, but the update to AGESA 1.0.0.3 ironed out any issues that I had. It's been smooth sailing for me ever since. Since then I've also upgraded to the newer chipset drivers + AGESA 1.0.0.3 ABB, but those haven't really done anything for me, or the performance optimizations are too small for me to notice. Like others, the idle temperatures and voltage fluctuations "scared" me at first. Through sporadic forum-reading I eventually learned that these things are totally fine, and this is simply Zen 2 functioning as designed. My temperatures actually aren't even that bad. On idle, it dips down to around 35 degrees... sometimes even lower, but it's hard to tell with HWiNFO constantly polling the CPU. And on full load, it goes up to around 76 degrees. I owe it to a pretty nice AIO cooler (the H115i Pro) and proper application of good thermal paste (Gelid Extreme). Overall I'm pretty satisfied right now.
CHADBOGA said: Francois is a God amongst insects. https://twitter.com/i/web/status/1137754038076710912 Click to expand... Do you mean he's a cockroach or that he's intelligent and should be listened to? Edit: Oh okay never mind. I remember Francois being praised many years ago when he was still with Intel. I follow him on Twitter and others. Someone dug up some old posts of his on a website and managed to link him to it where he dragged people and insulted them while lying through his teeth. Dude's a nut job and he manages to bring him his Godzilla out of nowhere. And by that I mean his overpriced Skyline, otherwise there is no godzilla to be found on his person. No one who degrades others so much for correcting him will ever have anything of value down there. I wouldn't be surprised if he was pushed out of Intel. Going from Intel to MBZ seems like a massive downgrade in careers.
